# Covid19_Data_Analysis
Machine Learning for COVID-19 Data Analysis Project

**A Different Traditional Approach for Automatic Comparative Machine Learning in Multimodality Covid-19 Severity Recognition**

In March 2020, the World Health Organization introduced a new infectious pandemic called “novel coronavirus disease” or “COVID-19”, origin dates back to World War II (1939) and spread from the city of Wuhan in China (2019). The severity of the outbreak affected the health of abundant folk worldwide. This bred the emergence of unimodal artificial intelligence approaches in the diagnosis of coronavirus disease but solely led to a significant percentage of false-negative results. In this paper, we combined 2500 COVID-19 multimodal data based on Early Fusion Type-I (EFT1) architecture as a severity recognition model for the classification task. We designed and implemented one-step systems of automatic comparative machine learning (AutoCML) and automatic comparative machine learning based on important feature selection (AutoIFSCML). We utilized our posed assessment method called “Descended Composite Scores Average (DCSA)”. In AutoCML, Extreme Gradient Boost (DCSA=0.998) and in AutoIFSCML, Random Forest (DCSA=0.960) demonstrated the best performance for multimodality Covid-19 severity recognition while 70% of the characteristics with high DCSA were chosen by the internal important features selection system (AutoIFS) to enter the AutoCML system. The DCSA-based designed systems can be useful in implementing fine-tuned machine learning models in medical processes by leveraging the capacities and performances of the model in all methods. As well as ensemble learning sounds good among evaluated traditional models in systems.

Saraei, M., Rahmani, S., Rajebi, S., Danishvar, S. (2023). Int. J. Innov. Eng., 3(1), 1-12. doi: https://doi.org/10.59615/ijie.3.1.1
